Entrepreneurs: Isaac Lewis

ChineseVille combines online games with language learning. The initial motivation came from my own experiences of studying Mandarin, where rote-learning of characters is time-consuming and tedious. ChineseVille makes language learning more enjoyable - even addictive - by incorporating gameplay elements, constant feedback, and competition with friends. 

ChineseVille is a Facebook application with two elements; testing with flashcards and a simple village-building game. As you expand your vocabulary, you attract more people to your village, and unlock new building types; you can also do battle with your friends to see who has the best knowledge of Chinese. Special algorithms are used to make memorization more reliable, by calculating the optimum revision time for each item.

ChineseVille is currently in development, though I plan to launch a beta version in February.

I see two directions for ChineseVille; either towards a more comprehensive Mandarin-learning experience, or expanding the range of flashcards to include multiple languages and subjects. 

Companies in the Mandarin-learning space include ChinesePod and nciku.com; they tend to earn their revenue through premium accounts. Companies in the flashcard space include Smart.fm and Quizlet; they have more users, but seem more difficult to monetize. ChineseVille can differentiate itself from the incumbents by including gameplay elements; also, the Facebook platform may provide access to customers not currently serviced by the online learning market.

I estimate the number of Mandarin learners on Facebook to be around 1.5 million; since ChineseVille rewards users for recruiting their friends, rapid viral growth may be possible. My target for the end of Year 1 is 100,000 users with 1000 premium accounts (paying around £5/month); Y2 target is 250,000 users and 5,000 premium accounts, for an annual gross profit of £300,000. Potential costs include web hosting, advertising, and employing front-end designers and education experts.





