Entrepreneurs: Isaac Lewis

ChineseVille aims to combine social games with language learning. The initial motivation came from my own experiences of studying Mandarin, where rote-learning of characters is time-consuming and tedious. ChineseVille makes language learning more enjoyable - even addictive - by incorporating gameplay elements, constant feedback, and competition with friends. It makes memorization faster and more reliable by using the Spaced Repetition algorithm, which calculates the optimum time to revise each item.

It consists of a Facebook application where users can load vocabulary lists from popular textbooks. (There is also a non-Facebook version). The app then tests the user with flashcards from their vocabulary list; correct answers are rewarded with "rice", the basic resource of the game. Rice can be used to attract people to your village, and learning new words unlocks new building types, so you can compete with your friends to see who has the biggest and coolest village and hence the best knowledge of Chinese.

ChineseVille is currently in development, though I plan to launch a beta version in February.

There are two main directions ChineseVille can grow; either towards a more comprehensive Mandarin-learning experience, or by expanding the range of flashcards to include multiple languages and subjects. 

Companies in the Mandarin-learning space include ChinesePod and nciku.com; they tend to earn their revenue through premium accounts. Companies in the flashcard space include Smart.fm and Quizlet; they have more users, but seem more difficult to monetize (for example, Smart.fm relies on partnerships with other companies for revenue). ChineseVille can differentiate itself from the incumbents by incorporating gameplay elements; also, the Facebook platform may provide access to customers not currently serviced by the online learning market.

I estimate the number of Mandarin learners on Facebook to be around 1.5 million; since ChineseVille rewards users for recruiting their friends, rapid viral growth may be possible. My target for the end of Year 1 is 100,000 users with 1000 premium accounts (paying around £5/month); Y2 target is 250,000 users and 5,000 premium accounts, for an annual gross profit of £300,000. Potential costs include web hosting, advertising, and employing front-end designers and education experts.





